From Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes. Oh, weekly discussion
with web developer and technologist
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one 87.
Recorded live Wednesday, November 11th, 2009. Support
for Hanselman. This is provided
by Tellerik rad controls, the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with software
tester, James Bach. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman, and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes, and I'm still in
Sweden here at aura dev
in Malmo, Sweden. And I've
got the opportunity to sit
down with James Bach. James,
you may have heard his
name. He is a consulting
software tester and the author
of two books and a
contributed to a number of
books. He wrote lessons learned
in software testing, and most
recently wrote secrets of a
Buccaneer scholar. Thank you, sir,
for sitting down with me
today. Glad to be here.
So secrets of a Buccaneer
scholar, that doesn't seem as
clear to me as the
title lessons learned in software
testing. I think I know
what I'm going to get
from one of the books.
What am I going to
get from a Buccaneer scholar
book with a hyphen in
between buck and Aaron scholar?
Well, it's about a, an
aggressive sort of self-education that
I've been involved with since
I dropped out of high
school back in 1982, and
it's basically the secret to
whatever success I have in
this industry. And I wanted
to tell people about this
methodology I use so backup,
you dropped out of high
school and you never went
back. You don't have a
GED, you don't have a
GED. I have no formal
education past the past 10th
grade. It does not just
mean you have natural software
talent. Well, what happened? I
guess like a lot of
kids, my father bought me
an Apple two computer when
just before I was kicked
out of home when I
was 14 and I went
to live in a motel
room with my computer and
I spent a lot of
time skipping school and learning
how to program and learning
how to program an assembly
language. And so by the
time that I dropped out
of school, I went almost
immediately into being a video
game programmer. Really? So when
did you, you moved out
at 14. When did you
finally give up on school
at 16? As soon as
it was legal for me
to do so, although actually
it was my father's idea.
He, I was trying to
get them to let me
skip a grade, even though
I was failing every class
and he, and he said,
why didn't you just leave?
And I said, I'm allowed
to do that. Why didn't
realize I'm gonna raise my
sights? And he told me
something, which at the time
I didn't think was serious.
He said, you should just
take care of your own
education and not, not expect
anyone else to do it.
And I thought, well, that's
weird. What does that mean?
Take care of you in
education? Because at that time,
like so many people in
the, around the world, in
the industrialized world, I thought
of education as equal to
schooling. I thought of it
is exactly the same thing.
Of course, since then I
realized that education is a
vast thing and schooling is
a relatively narrow thing. And
I have been taking care
of my education, but to
do that, I had to
develop methods of doing that,
that allow me to deal
with my particular disabilities. And
do you think that you,
I mean, do you use
the word so I'll, I'll
continue that, do you think
you have a disability as
around, around either a learning
disability or a school specific
disability? I have no self
discipline. I basically, I maybe
have a little bit of
it. I might have traces
of it, but I basically,
unlike a lot of people,
I seem to have no
ability to learn things. When
other people tell me I
have to, or to do
things. One of the people
tell me I have to
above basic safety type things.
My teachers would say, you
should read this and I'd
go, ah, Well, isn't that
just disdain for authority? Is
that sit in that separate
from an ability? I think
that's what I mean, inability
is not unwillingness. Well, I
seem to not be able
to overcome Comment even when
it would be in my
best economic interests to do
so. So that's where it,
it moves into kind of
a disability. I don't think
of it as a big
time disability. It's just, it's
a, it's an attribute of
me that I've had to
learn to work with. And
when I realized it was
very, very serious was when
I was 12. And I
had been going through this
war with the school authorities
about hallmark. I refuse to
do homework because of the
13th amendment to the constitution,
which says there shall be
no slavery in the United States.
And I looked at that
and I said, that means
I don't have to do
homework. And they said that
that's, that's not what it
means. And I'm like, I'm
reading it. And it says,
involuntary servitude, this is involuntary
servitude. I have not been
convicted of a crime. It
says, unless you've been convicted
of a crime. So we
had this big fight and
they use all kinds of
psychology tactics to try to
break me down. And the
thing is that the psychology
tactics worked eventually I was
crushed. I was Crushed emotionally.
It was terribly depressed while
you're 12. I mean, it's
not an adult. Oh yeah,
it was absolutely. I was
so many things happen to
me when I was 12
that basically defined my seem
to define my life later
on. And so I defined,
I said, okay, I'll do
it. I will do the
homework I give up. And
then I discovered a horrifying
thing when I discovered it.
It was, I mean, it
was, I think horrifying is
the right word. My mind
was still on strike, even
though my executive will was
saying, let's do the homework.
My would, would refuse to
read anything on the page.
So I would try to
read on the page and
it would instantly disappear from
my mind as if I
had some sort of short
term memory disability. And I
tried again and I tried
again. And finally I realized
I couldn't force my mind
to work on things that
it, for whatever secret reasons
of its own didn't want
to think about. And up
until that moment in my
life, I assumed that I
was of one mind that
I get to choose what
I do. And it's all,
we all work together, all
the little neurons. And I
realized that I actually have
several different identity centers or
something. And so ever since
then, I've learned that I
have to treat my thinking
mind, like a pet tiger.
And if I don't treat
it right, it runs off
into the forest. And that
indeed several times in my
career, before I figured out
how to do this, I
experienced a deep burnout. Once
I experienced such a burnout
that I was not able
to read any email, I
got email phobia. And another
time I got such a
deep burnout that I would
be physically sick if I
sat down on a keyboard
and all of these were
from trying to push myself
so hard. And what I
had to learn is to
pace myself and a big
part of growing up for
me in my thirties was
learning how learning, what my
limitations were learning, how not,
what the signs are when
my brain is trying to
say, no, I don't want
to do that anymore. And
what that's meant is is
that I've had to do
all kinds, kinds of innovative
things, innovative to people from
the outside. But I know
that they look innovative because
I've gotten good at featuring
what I can't help, but
do anyway. So for instance,
I read the five books
on Darwin a couple of
months ago. I wasn't supposed
to read five books on
Darwin. I was supposed to
be doing something else, but
I was interested in reading
about Darwin. So I just
got absorbed. And ever since
then, I've been trying to
find connections between Darwin and
testing so that I can
teach my testing classes and
people can go how inventive
he's related, the Darwin and
the, and his approaches to
analysis and experimentation to software
testing. What an innovative thing
to do is is that
innovative or is that artificially
innovative? Well, I, what I'm
saying is it is kind
of artificially innovative. It's something
I couldn't help, but do.
And so I'm trying to
find a way to make
it useful, make it productive
time, make it productive time.
Retrospectively. I did that in
my talk today. I, I
did some playing around with
things that I didn't need
to learn a year ago
and learned about something called
a simulated annealing. And then
last night at 3:00 AM, I
realized that what I'd learned
about simulated annealing exactly fit
into a point I wanted
to make about efficiency and
software testing. And so I
was able to take that
stuff that I had done.
That was a waste of
my time a year ago.
And now retrospectively, it's not,
That's interesting. I might get
nailed by my readers on
this because whenever I try
to use my own, you
know, try to Google my
own brain here, but it
wasn't, it wasn't Richard Fineman
that wrote a book called
consilience. That was all about
how I don't think it
was five minute. I think
it's no different guy I'm
familiar with the book. Can
the idea is that there
is, there are silos of
knowledge. There's your sociology class
and there's your geography class
and there's your anthropology class.
And to look at them
in that way kind of
conditions the mind not to
make those connections between them
as being completely related. The
idea that everything is truly
and completely it, I don't
think you're right. It's not
Fineman, but I think the
book was called consilience. And
the idea was that you
need to have a much
more holistic view of the
entire world, as all things
are just, you know, there
are patterns that are valuable
to be looking for and
that, you know, all true
innovation comes from recognition of
those patterns. I think so,
Or I think enough of
it is true that I
can make use of it.
And therefore about seven, eight
years ago, I was making
an argument about some, some
new test technique I was
playing with, with my, my
friend who has two doctorates
Kim caner. Who's a professor
at Florida tech. And he
said, well, that's obvious to
you, James, because you have
an unconventional education, but most
people wouldn't, wouldn't be interested
in that. And I said,
well, that's interesting. Maybe I
should write a book about
that. Yeah. I, original title
was a YouTube can get
an unconventional education, or it's
not too late to have
an unconventional education. And I've
began to explore things like
what you just mentioned, which
is not to say that
a conventional education is a
useless thing, but I was
trying to think, what are
the advantages of an unconventional
education that a conventionally educated
person might benefit from as
well, and maybe make themselves
more powerful? So actually I've
been writing this book for
26 years and in different
forms and that most recent
attempt starting about seven years
ago was the one that
developed into the final version
that I ended up We're
publishing. Now it's interesting. I,
I listened to an episode
of fresh air, recently, a
fresh air. If for those
of you who are international
listeners is an interview show
a lot like this, that's
got a much wider reach
and talks to a lot
of different kinds of people.
And one of the people
on the show was a
high school educated per I
think he was a plumber.
And he, he started playing
with particle physics and string
theory, and basically decided that
equals MC squared was wrong
and wrote the whole thing
up. And he went on
this very quick Sadik quest
to determine that with his
unconventional education, that, that, that
all of basically all of
modern physics was wrong at
this fundamental point. And on
the show that basically they
took him around to different
professors and they introduced him
around and it became clear
that he was just wrong,
but he wouldn't accept it.
When you, when you have
an unconventional education, how do
you know when you are
just wrong because of some
missing bit of knowledge, versus
being able to actually go
and fill that gap in
your, in your brain. How
do you know that when
you have a conventional education?
I don't think anybody knows
that Or a sociologic societal
inertia, perhaps. I mean That
doesn't tell me if I'm
right or wrong. If everyone
believes it, or if, if
no one believes it and
that has nothing to do
with, I mean, you have
to do every single experiment.
I mean, you have to
go in like, you know,
rub the two balloons together
to make sure static electricity
works the way you think
it does. I mean, that
would mean you'd have to
spend the next, If I
wanted to have a deep
understanding of a static electricity
than I would, I would
reproduce a fair day's experiments.
And I would benefit from
doing that. However, when I
say that I have an
unconventional education, that doesn't mean
that I don't read, or
I don't, I don't learn.
I mean, I learn, I
learn from all kinds of
sources. What I mean by
that is that I don't
accept anyone. Else's affordably. That's
where the Buccaneer and Buccaneer
scholar comes from. I don't
accept anyone else's authority over
my education. I definitely use
all kinds of resources. In
fact, in 1990, I hired
a, a history professor from
San Jose state to push
me through some history stuff
that I was having trouble
getting myself to go through.
And so I paid him
$45 an hour to sit
in a coffee shop and
listened to me talk about
the thing that he suggested
that I read. And because
he worked for me and
because I didn't want to
waste my $45, I did
the reading. You hired a
personal trainer. I hired a
personal trainer in history. That's
exactly right. And he told
me at the time, he
said, Oh, you should go
to San Jose state. We've
got a two years humanities
program. And I said, well,
I don't want to do
that. And he said, Oh
no, it's just for you.
You would love it. And
I'm like, okay, I guess
so. I mean, if you're
doing it, I guess so,
see, I'm not against the
concept of schooling. I'm against
the concept of school, removing
your ownership of your own
energy. Hey everybody, this is
Scott coming at you from
another place in time. No
doubt. You'll probably bump into
testing tasks now, and then,
and your work and, you
know, writing functional tests is
probably not your favorite thing.
It's kind of difficult. It
takes time and the results
can be dubious. Well, get
ready to start liking tests.
Thanks to Tellerik with the,
the new web testing framework.
Building web automation test is
a breeze. You've got code
automation with advanced asp.net Ajax
and several light applications. You
can write a single test,
have it executed against multiple
browsers at once. You'd benefit
from a rich API there's
link support integration with visual
studio, unit testing, also end
unit X unit and MBE
unit, not to mention the
free rappers for Telerik rad
controls for ESPN and Ajax,
and several light, all shipping
with Telerik's new testing tool.
One of the best features,
the testing framework, which is
developed by art of test
is it's absolutely free. Freddie
got hooked on web testing
framework, start using it right
away, go to tellerik.com for
more info. Thanks a lot.
This, this makes me, I've
got two young kids, and
this makes me think about
the difference between conventional education
and what they call Montessori
education. Kind of letting the
child to be a little
more self directed. Have you
done Montessori? I haven't. We've
just visited the schools. I
have friends that swear by
it, but it makes me
feel like some people learn
some ways and some people
don't. I mean, some kids
thrive in a Montessori school.
Some kids thrive just fine.
I absolutely know what it's
like a game. And some
people are just good at
some games and not so
good at others. I'm very
good at taking tests. That's
a game. I was always,
I just enjoyed being tested
and I like sitting down
and taking the quiz. Other
people are very upset and
tense when they take tests.
And otherwise they're, That's funny.
When I was, when I
went into my college, what
do you call it? The
person, the counselor, the college
counselor. So I'm in high
school, I've taken the SATs.
And then the college counselor
says your sat scores and
your grades are not congruent.
Right? You have these low
grades and this high sat
score you've been hanging out
for the last four years.
And of course, they always
say this with some disdain,
like, what are you, what
are you doing? Well, I'm
having a fear, an underachiever.
I'm having a great time.
Well, I obviously, I'm not
an underachiever. I have the
test scores that show that
I'm at least good at
taking tests. So I got
that going for me. So
it sounds like you were
probably flunking out of classes
and not doing your homework,
but when they tested you,
you were doing fine. She
got in a physical fight
with one of my teachers
who was so offended that
I wouldn't show up to
his class. And I, I
was a troublesome child. That's
for sure. But what I
didn't understand at the time,
but was true at the
time is that if a
teacher approached me with respect,
they would own me. They
couldn't get me to do
anything. They wanted me to
do. There was a teacher
who she was a substitute
teacher and she also was
the sort of the police
woman of the bouncer of
study hall. And she had
a bad reputation of being
always upset and angry. And
somehow she decided I was
okay. And she asked me
to do the sound of
this for the school play.
And I still remember that
to this day because it
was a very first time.
It dawned on me that
I could organize my thoughts
and complete a project. And
she got me to do
that by asking me nicely.
And I felt like I
wanted to perform for her
and other teachers would, if
I didn't do just what
they said, or if I
bucked them in any way
or thought critically about what
they were saying, they would
say, well, you have to
do this. And I'd say,
screw you. No, I don't.
You watch me, you know,
I'm, won't even show up
to your class or I'll
intentionally fail the test that
you give me how about
that? And they would do,
they would just go nuts.
They, they, they thought I
was this incorrigible youth. And
even, I didn't understand at
the time why some teachers,
I would do things for
and other teachers. I wouldn't,
I certainly could have stayed
in school and gone to
school in different ways. If
I had been exposed to
the right kinds of adults
who led me along. And
in fact, although I described
myself as self-educated, it's more
accurate to say, I mentor
educated. My first boss at
the video game company taught
me to drive, got me
to learn, to play the
harmonica. We would jog together.
He taught me all about
professional coding and why, why
you can't have little flickers
and nasty looking stuff on
the screen. I said, Oh,
they can hardly see that
flicker. And he said, do
it over. And he brought
all this, this my first
sense of what professionalism was
to me. And so he
was a big part of
my education. My first boss
at Apple taught me tremendous
things about professionalism above and
beyond that. I wish I
could find this guy. If
you're out there. Chris Brown,
who was leader of the
development systems quality group in
1987, contact me. It sounds
like you have almost a
respect driven educator. That's what
it is. It's re I,
you know what it is.
And this is what I
wrote about in the book.
I don't have, self-discipline so
much. What I operate on
is passion. I operate on
heart it's feelings. It's the
feeling that my work is
being is needed by somebody
that drives me forward. And
any time I find myself
in a situation that I
don't feel needed, my motivation
completely collapses. And that's one
reason why I'm an independent.
I worked for other companies
for years, but for the
last 10 years, I work
for myself and I wait
for clients to come to
me who say, James Bach,
we've read your stuff. We've
seen what you do. We
want what you do. And
then I go, yes. And
I'm ready to be super
motive Waiting for them. So,
so how can those things
that are clearly working for
you be applied to other
people? I'm giving an example.
I was, I was driven
over here from the hotel
by a very nice young
man. And I was chatting
him up in the car
and I said, so what
do you do? And he
says, well, I'm a software
engineer. Oh, really? What, where
do you work? Well, I'm
unemployed right now. I'm driving
this car. And he said,
well, if I can't get
a job, but my next
summer, I'm going to go
back and get my master's
degree. And I hear that
kind of constantly where it's
like, I'm going to just
peek my head out from
school for a moment. If
I can't get a job,
then I'm gonna duck down
again and try again. Cause
look what they're doing. When
you say I'm going to
get a master's degree. All
you're basically saying is I
want to now compete with
a slightly smaller, huge group
of people who are identical
to me, instead of saying,
how can I feature myself
as someone unique? And here's
the thing. When I became
a tester at Apple computer,
I hadn't heard of testing
before that. I did, I
did my own testing, right,
as a developer. So I
thought I knew about testing
and I'd never studied it.
And I realized I needed
to study and I studied
really hard. And I started
feeling like I was kind
of good at it. And
I looked around to four
or 400 other testers at
Apple computer in the group
at the time. And I
realized, I seem to be
only one of about a
dozen people who were even
trying to study this subject.
And I realized that maybe
all these other people that
all had college degrees thought
that their education was done
and I felt mine wasn't
done. So I was able
to just sing by them.
Now, why was I interested
in doing this? And they
weren't. I think maybe I
had fallen into testing as
something that happens to really
fit what I love, how
I love to think. It
just naturally fits my kind
of my complainy lateral thinking,
critical thinking type of personality.
I'm always trying to think
of a, of an exception
to a rule, How to
break it, how to get
around it. How do you
know how to get it?
Isn't it, it's kind of
a hacker mentality, I guess.
And, and so I really
fit in testing. So whereas
some people were trying to
Excel at testing when they
actually their heart wasn't in
it. I had found something
that my heart was attracted
to. So lots of energy
was liberated for me to
work on this, what you
need to do. If you
are an conventionally educated person,
I think is you need
to discover, and this is
the tough thing in life,
but we have all our
twenties pretty much to do
it. Discover what it is,
what mix of activities makes
you super excited that you
want to do. And then
if you go into that
field, you will be able
to compete, regardless of your
level of formal education, you'll
be able to compete like
gangbusters because you'll be surrounded
by people who were mostly
pushed into their, by their
parents or by their peers.
They don't know what else
to do. And you will
be able to run right
by them. Like they're standing
still and you develop your
reputation. And we can do
that in the modern world,
much more easily because we
have all blogs now, free
blogs that I didn't have
back in my day. And
you develop your portfolio, you
post examples of your work
on your personal brand, your
personal brand. Exactly. So that's
basically what I talk about
in the book is how
to do how I developed
my personal brand. And what's
amazing to me is I
heard from a guy with
12 years experience with testing
and he said he had
to get IST QP certified.
And he's just no choice.
He has to do it.
And I said, I did,
I'm not IST QB certified.
And he said, yes, but
you're the famous James bot.
Right? But when I had
12 years experience, I could
have done the same thing.
And when I had six
years in two years experience,
I mean, I, wasn't always
famous as a software tester.
I became famous by being
passionate well and developing my
personal brand. So there's, there's
a, there's a, there's a
popular blogger. Jane Jeff Atwood
who writes coding horror.com. And
he talks about that. He's
not a particularly talented software
programmer. He, he admits that,
but he has, you know,
120,000 people that day that
read his blog. So he
says, what I lack in
talent I make up for,
with intensity is, I mean,
is that what you're saying?
I mean, one where someone
could take a cynical view
and say, well, you know,
the passionate person will win
over the more, maybe more
trained, more intelligent, but dispassionate
individual That may very well
happen. And there are also
situations, many situations that turns
out where people run away
from passionate people. They they're
frightened of them. But as
I say in the book,
you know, I don't need
everybody to hire me. I
just need a few people
to harm me, maybe even
one at a time. And
so there's a whole world
out there that can discover
me. It's okay. That my
spicy Tabasco brand of thinking
where I'm constantly calling bullshit
on people instead of accepting
what most people believe. Absolutely.
It doesn't work for a
lot of folks. Hey, there's
a lot of folks at
Microsoft to complain about the
things that I do doesn't
work for them, but there
are lots of people who
take me seriously and think
that I've got good things
to say. And I pretty
much ignore people who don't
like what I have to
offer and pretty much focus
on the people who need
what I have to offer.
And yeah, just, you know,
feature that I think we
all like that we all
have a balance of attributes,
a basket of attributes in
us and a basket of
things that we want to
develop. We want to spend
our time doing some people
are more meticulous than others.
Some people have a lot
more charm and people skills
than I do. And I
want to work with those
people. They're always very comfortable
to work with, but I'm
not like that. So I'm
not going to compete with
them on that basis. So
are you saying that part
of your process was figuring
out what your weaknesses were
and how to downplay them
or how to do, are
you a person who like
downplays the weakness and works
to the strength? Other people
say, well, you really need
to work on the weakness
and make it a strength.
Right? What I've found both
as a manager and just
personally, I found that I
need to, maybe I work
on the weaknesses a little
bit, but basically a downplay
them. And instead of trying
to practice being quiet, I
try to look for situations
where allowed guys needed. You
know, my wife recruited me
to be her husband because
she's an introvert and she
wanted an extrovert to be
your bodyguard. And I enjoy
playing that role. I'm her
bodyguard. And every time we
go to the doctor, I'm
like her lawyer talks to
the doctors that she doesn't
have to argue with the
doctor and any kind of,
she needs to talk to
somebody on the phone. Who's
giving her a hard time.
She passes the phone over
to me and I'm the
guy who's the, the bad
cop. And she gets to
be the, you know, soft
cop and the friendly person
who smoothed things over after
I leave them in shambles
and it works for us
and she does all the
finances and she does all
the paperwork. Cause she's good
that, and I'm not, I'm
not a meticulous enough for
that. And I work on
the big ideas and, and
speaking in public and, and
all this. And we compliment
each other very well. So
I like to downplay, I
mean, I'm 43. Now there
are weaknesses that I have
that I'm just don't think
I'm going to get over.
I just rather focus on
what my stress, Well, they
always say that when, when
you're out there and you
have a lot of emotional
baggage, the trick is to
find people whose emotional baggage
matches yours. There you go.
Whether it be a company
or an industry or in
that case, a wife. Yeah,
absolutely. Cause if you try
to, to work against that,
at least for me, it
goes while burn out I'll
I will, I will go
through a self destructive kind
of experience. So I have
to avoid that. What are
some of the, of the
really concrete things that someone
can take away from this?
It sounds like there are
a series of life, lessons
and stories. Are there techniques
within the book that the
listeners can apply Futuristics that
I offer. And I try
to break down what I
do into 11 different elements.
And sometimes people read it
and they think what I'm
saying is do these 11
things and you will be
successful, not a cookbook. It's
not a cookbook. And I'm
not saying you two will
be successful if you do
these things. What I'm saying
is is that if you
happen to be either the
sort of person who has
always struggled to play the
same kind of game in
a conventional thinking game, that
everyone else is trying to
play, and you're not being
successful for you, maybe you're
a different kind of mind,
the Buccaneer type of mind,
like, like me and maybe
these elements will be helpful
to you if you are
a conventional thinking kind of
person, but you want to
be really great at what
you do. Maybe these 11
elements might be worth thinking
about, because maybe you'll find
something in them that you
can use to supercharge what
you already are good at
doing that. I don't happen
to be good at doing,
you know, fitting in and
getting along. So for instance,
one of the 11 elements
is called contrasting ideas and
it relates to my habit
of any time I find
myself thinking about one practice
or one philosophy or one
way of organizing the world.
I find myself thinking, what's
the opposite of that? What
would be the thing that
was the furthest away from
that? And how do I
know that's not also a
good thing to do? And
so I find myself slamming
ideas together in my mind,
and I love getting to
arguments. I love dialectical learning.
A lot of people like
to avoid arguments and seek
common ground, but I seek
the potent learning that comes
from a strident disagreement. And
many times people think I'm,
I'm angry at them when
I'm actually very excited about
what they're saying, and I
want to test it. So
I, I saw them. What
about this? What about this?
I'm giving them test cases.
Can I want to say,
can you pass this test
case? And they go stop
yelling at me. And like,
I'm, I'm loving. This is
One of the things that
might one of the many
things that my wife hates
about me is that we'll
have these arguments where I'll
pick a position. It could
be something basic or it
could be something political and
all we'll fight, we'll fight
and we'll fight. And then
I'll realize that she's right.
And I'll go, Oh, okay,
well, I totally see your
point. So I'll go from
this intense kind of like
attack mode where we're just
really having this great lowercase,
a argument, and it's very
enthusiastic and I'm really upbeat.
And then I go, and
then I've, I've, I've collected
all this great information from
her. I'll go, Oh, okay.
That's great. And she's like,
well, how can you just
go from having such a
strong opinion to like saying,
Oh, you're right. And I
said, well, it's a strong
opinion. That's weakly held. I'm,
I'm completely willing to, you
know, I mean, I believe
that they, that way of
saying, I mean, I believe
that gravity until you prove
it, you know, if you
prove right now that gravity
didn't work, I'd be like,
Oh, okay, great. And I
would be like the most
fervent anti-gravity. I said that
I have a little phrase
it's like that. I say
I'm a skeptic. And when
one of my other elements
is skepticism and skepticism does
not mean scoffing, which is
a lot of people think
it means scoffing. Oh, I
don't believe that what skepticism
means in the original sense
of sexism, pure Gus and
Purell of Ellis from back
2000 years ago, the original
skepticism was the spirit of
let the inquiry continue. I
never know anything for certain,
so yes, I'm going to
believe things, but I try
to sleep lightly on the
truth, strong opinion, lightly held
sleep lightly on the truth
so that your wake up
bubble. Right? Right. So maybe
what your wife is thinking
as a lot of people
think that an argument is
a fight that's she doesn't
understand that Aren't you turned,
I'm trying to change her
mind. Yeah. Aren't you trying
to, to, to, to attack
me or change me or
manipulate me, how come you
suddenly stopped? That doesn't make
any sense? Well, maybe what
I wasn't trying to do
any of those things and
it just looked like that.
But of course it's hard
for folks like us because
sometimes we're in our own
head doing this and we
have no idea that everybody
else is terrified of us
or intimidated. I was once
in a class where we
went around the room and
people gave words that were
associated with conflict. And I
was amazed because everyone before
me was saying pain. So
funny, I said fun. And
I said, I said, excitement.
That was mine. Excitement. I
was the only one in
the room who had a
positive idea of conflict. See,
that's what Buccaneer comes from.
It's this. I realized that
the historical Buccaneers were aggressive.
People of adventurers. They had
to master lots of different
skills. They considered themselves a
free society of people, not
just a bunch of pirates.
They were a free society
trying to make it in
a new world where there
weren't so many rules. They
were like hackers. They left,
they were life hacking, packing,
having left Europe where it's
all cloistered. And they realized
that, that they could from
these Spanish ships. And they
started doing that. And they
didn't think of themselves as
Steves though. They thought of
themselves as, Hey, Spain doesn't
really own this stuff. Anyway.
They just stole it from
these Indians. So we'll just,
we'll just steal it from
them. And the, the, the
17th century Buccaneers, unlike the
18th century, Buccaneers had a
social kind of basis, as
opposed to just being a
pirates the way they, they
turned into a later on.
And I'm like that. I
just, I don't quite fit
in and I do my
own thing and the world
can certainly get along without
me. And yet there are
certain kinds of things that
I can offer to the
world just as the Buccaneers
were used by the navies
of England and the navies
of France and in Portugal,
different times to fight the
Spanish, they were, they were
like a sort of exhilarating
force. That was a useful,
well, I'm a kind of
exhilarated forest that sometimes can
be used in addition to
whatever else they're doing. And
so I try to have
interesting things to offer people
that they might not get
anywhere else. And I teach
people this way of thinking,
well, thanks. This is, this
has been really fun. I
really appreciate it. It's been
really fun for me, Scott,
what you can check out.
James Bach on his website
is satisfies.com. I'll add the
links to that in the
show notes and bucking your
scholar.com. You have bucket near
scholar.com as well. Fantastic. Be
sure to check out his
books on software testing and
his newly released secrets of
a fucking year scholar. Again,
thank you so much for
your time. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes.
See you again next week.